Track 2: Build a Model
Annotate. One litmus test for choosing Track 2 is that modeling your construct requires new data. You started collecting some of this in A2, and you have an opportunity to continue in A3. Note, that you don’t have more access to your teacher-buddy’s time, and you (as busy students) perhaps don’t want to spend eons annotating -- so how will you make the most out of human effort? Think about the ideas we discussed in class: finding the highest leverage examples to label using active learning or filtering by metadata, changing the way you elicit expertise (maybe instead of labeling 0/1 where 1 is rare, have everyone write 10 new examples of what would be a 1).
Performance Analysis. Train your model. Most of you will do post-training on an existing base model (e.g. RoBERTa for classifiers, Llama 3B for generative). Ask us for starter code, ask GPT, and take a look at HuggingFace docs! Report performance metrics in a table, and interpret them in writing. Why did you choose these numbers to report, and what do they tell us about how well your model performs? Is it better or worse than you expected? 
Then, find examples of error. If the model is analytic, maybe “false positives” and “false negatives”. If the model is generative, use categories that make sense for you (examples that “get it wrong” in different ways). What do you make of these? Are there certain contexts in which the model performs better than others? Look at enough examples that you get a stable signal for what the model might be doing well / poorly. Write up a couple examples for each model in your report.
Performance Enhancement. Try 3 adaptations to improve the performance of your model. This can be hyperparameter tuning, doing a different cleaning procedure on your training data, training using only a subset of your annotated data, weights for classifiers, a different base model, etc. Come talk to us for ideas! Report performance metrics in a table, and interpret them in writing. What worked? Why do you think so?
Descriptive Analyses. We hope that our work can inform both the edtech industry *and education theory. Apply your best model to to analyze new data. This can be the remainder of your original dataset (the part you did not annotate or hold out as validation), or new data you find compelling. What novel insights does this afford (at scale)? Do 3 analyses that show us something interesting. These can be descriptive, exploratory, lexical, unsupervised, etc. They can also involve inference, relating your measure to classroom characteristics or student outcomes.
Empowering Teachers. How can this model be used to empower teachers? What kinds of tools or research can you see it supporting? 
Limitations. What are the disclosures you need to make to ethically deploy this model? When should it be used, and when should it not be used? What are the possible harms? 